## About Trase
Trase is a supply chain transparency initiative that seeks to transform our understanding of how 
companies, governments and other actors involved in the trade of agricultural commodities are 
linked to impacts and opportunities for more sustainable production – and to place this 
understanding in the hands of those who can make a difference.

            
The work of Trase is motivated in particular by the ambition set out in the sustainability 
pledges of an increasing number of governments, companies and investors to achieve deforestation 
free supply chains – in many cases by 2020. Building from the zero deforestation agenda the 
transparency delivered by Trase can help drive a step change in a wide range of environmental and
social impacts associated with unsustainable commodity production and trade.

            
At the core of the Trase initiative is trase.earth, a new open-access information system and 
online platform for supply chain transparency.  The platform, based on a new approach to mapping 
agricultural supply chains at scale, offers a powerful and innovative response to the growing and
urgent need for credible information on the traceability and sustainability performance of 
commodity supply chains, covering entire countries and production systems.

            
Its pioneering approach draws on vast sets of production, trade and customs data, for the first 
time laying bare the flows of globally traded commodities from production landscapes to consumer 
countries for entire countries and commodity sectors. Along the way it identifies the ports of 
export and import, and the producers, traders and transporters involved. These supply chain 
actors can then be linked back to environmental and social risk factors on the ground, as well as
information on the social and governance factors necessary to improve conditions.

## What is the vision of Trase?
The vision of Trase is to provide, by 2021, the go-to public supply chain information system for 
companies, governments, investors and other actors seeking to transition towards more sustainable
production, trade and consumption for the world´s major forest-risk agricultural commodities.

Over the next five years Trase aims to cover over 70% of the total traded volume of major forest 
risk commodities, including soy, beef, palm oil, timber, pulp and paper, coffee, cocoa and 
aquaculture.  From 2017, Trase will focus on expanding to include all Latin American soy, and 
initiating new programs of work on beef in Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay, palm oil in Indonesia 
and Colombia and coffee in Colombia.  Additional countries and commodities will be added in 
subsequent years. Read the Trase vision here.
